=head1 NAME

Gtk2::ActionGroup - wrapper for GtkActionGroup

=cut

=for position DESCRIPTION

=head2 NOTE: Translation

In C, gtk+'s action groups can use the translation domain to ensure that action
labels and tooltips are translated along with the rest of the app.  However,
the translation function was not available for calling B<by> the Perl bindings
until gtk+ 2.6; that is, setting the translation domain had no effect.
Translation of action groups is supported in Perl as of Gtk2 1.080 using
gtk+ 2.6.0 or later.

=cut



=head1 HIERARCHY

  Glib::Object
  +----Gtk2::ActionGroup



=cut

=head1 INTERFACES

  Gtk2::Buildable



=cut


=head1 METHODS

=head2 actiongroup = Gtk2::ActionGroup-E<gt>B<new> ($name)

=over

=item * $name (string) 

=back

=head2 action = $action_group-E<gt>B<get_action> ($action_name)

=over

=item * $action_name (string) 

=back

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<add_action> ($action)

=over

=item * $action (Gtk2::Action) 

=back

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<add_action_with_accel> ($action, $accelerator)

=over

=item * $action (Gtk2::Action) 

=item * $accelerator (string or undef) 

=back

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<add_actions> ($action_entries, $user_data=undef)

=over

=item * $action_entries (scalar) 

=item * $user_data (scalar) 

=back

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<add_radio_actions> ($radio_action_entries, $value, $on_change, $user_data=undef)

=over

=item * $radio_action_entries (scalar) 

=item * $value (integer) 

=item * $on_change (scalar) 

=item * $user_data (scalar) 

=back

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<add_toggle_actions> ($toggle_action_entries, $user_data=undef)

=over

=item * $toggle_action_entries (scalar) 

=item * $user_data (scalar) 

=back

=head2 list = $action_group-E<gt>B<list_actions> 

=head2 string = $action_group-E<gt>B<get_name> 

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<remove_action> ($action)

=over

=item * $action (Gtk2::Action) 

=back

=head2 boolean = $action_group-E<gt>B<get_sensitive> 

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<set_sensitive> ($sensitive)

=over

=item * $sensitive (boolean) 

=back

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<set_translate_func> ($func, $data=undef)

=over

=item * $func (scalar) 

=item * $data (scalar) 

=back

Since: gtk+ 2.6

=head2 string = $action_group-E<gt>B<translate_string> ($string)

=over

=item * $string (string) 

=back

Since: gtk+ 2.6

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<set_translation_domain> ($domain)

=over

=item * $domain (string) 

=back

=head2 boolean = $action_group-E<gt>B<get_visible> 

=head2 $action_group-E<gt>B<set_visible> ($sensitive)

=over

=item * $sensitive (boolean) 

=back



=cut


=head1 PROPERTIES

=over

=item 'name' (string : default undef : readable / writable / construct-only / private)

A name for the action group.

=item 'sensitive' (boolean : default true : readable / writable / private)

Whether the action group is enabled.

=item 'visible' (boolean : default true : readable / writable / private)

Whether the action group is visible.

=back



=cut


=head1 SIGNALS

=over

=item B<connect-proxy> (Gtk2::ActionGroup, Gtk2::Action, Gtk2::Widget)

=item B<disconnect-proxy> (Gtk2::ActionGroup, Gtk2::Action, Gtk2::Widget)

=item B<pre-activate> (Gtk2::ActionGroup, Gtk2::Action)

=item B<post-activate> (Gtk2::ActionGroup, Gtk2::Action)

=back



=cut


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Gtk2>, L<Glib::Object>


=cut


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003-2008 by the gtk2-perl team.

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Gtk2> for a full notice.



=cut

