=head1 NAME

Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry - A text entry field with a dropdown list

=cut

=for position SYNOPSIS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # the easy way
  $combo_box_entry = Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry->new_text;
  foreach (qw(one two three four five)) {
      $combo_box_entry->append_text ($_);
  }

  # or the powerful way.  there always has to be at least
  # one text column in the model, but you can have anything
  # else in it that you want, just like Gtk2::ComboBox.
  $combo_box_entry = Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry->new ($model, $text_index);

  # to mess with with entry directly, get the child:
  $current_text = $combo_box_entry->child->get_text;

=cut



=for position DESCRIPTION

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A ComboBoxEntry is a widget that allows the user to choose from a list of valid
choices or enter a different value.  It is very similar to a ComboBox, but
displays the selected value in an entry to allow modifying it.

The ComboBoxEntry has a Gtk2::Entry as its child.  To get or set the
currently-displayed text, just manipulate the entry normally.

=cut



=head1 HIERARCHY

  Glib::Object
  +----Glib::InitiallyUnowned
       +----Gtk2::Object
            +----Gtk2::Widget
                 +----Gtk2::Container
                      +----Gtk2::Bin
                           +----Gtk2::ComboBox
                                +----Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry



=cut

=head1 INTERFACES

  Glib::Object::_Unregistered::AtkImplementorIface
  Gtk2::Buildable
  Gtk2::CellLayout
  Gtk2::CellEditable



=cut

=for object Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry - A text entry field with a dropdown list

=cut




=head1 METHODS

=head2 $entry = Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry->B<new>

=head2 $entry = Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry->B<new> ($model, $text_column)

=over

=item * $text_column (integer) 

=item * $model (Gtk2::TreeModel) 

=back



=head2 widget = Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry-E<gt>B<new_text> 

Since: gtk+ 2.4

=head2 $entry = Gtk2::ComboBoxEntry->B<new_with_model> ($model, $text_column)

=over

=item * $text_column (integer) 

=item * $model (Gtk2::TreeModel) 

=back

Alias for new, with two arguments.

=head2 integer = $entry_box-E<gt>B<get_text_column> 

=head2 $entry_box-E<gt>B<set_text_column> ($text_column)

=over

=item * $text_column (integer) 

=back



=cut


=head1 PROPERTIES

=over

=item 'text-column' (integer : default -1 : readable / writable / private)

A column in the data source model to get the strings from

=back



=cut


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Gtk2>, L<Glib::Object>, L<Glib::InitiallyUnowned>, L<Gtk2::Object>, L<Gtk2::Widget>, L<Gtk2::Container>, L<Gtk2::Bin>, L<Gtk2::ComboBox>


=cut


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003-2008 by the gtk2-perl team.

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Gtk2> for a full notice.



=cut

