=head1 NAME

Gtk2::GC

=cut

=for position DESCRIPTION

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions provide access to a shared pool of L<Gtk2::Gdk::GC>
objects. When a new L<Gtk2::Gdk::GC> is needed, I<Gtk2::Gdk::GC::get> is called
with the required depth, colormap and I<Gtk2::Gdk::GCValues>. If a
L<Gtk2::Gdk::GC> with the required properties already exists then that is
returned. If not, a new L<Gtk2::Gdk::GC> is created.

[From: L<http://developer.gnome.org/doc/API/2.0/gtk/gtk-Graphics-Contexts.html>]

=cut



=for position post_hierarchy

=head1 HIERARCHY

  Glib::Object
  +----Gtk2::Gdk::GC
       +----Gtk2::GC

=cut




=head1 METHODS

=head2 gc = Gtk2::GC->B<get> ($depth, $colormap, $values)

=over

=item * $depth (integer) 

=item * $colormap (Gtk2::Gdk::Colormap) 

=item * $values (Gtk2::Gdk::GCValues) Values to match

=back

C<$values> is a hashref with keys and values as per
C<< Gtk2::Gdk::GC->new >> (see L<Gtk2::Gdk::GC>).



=cut

=for position post_methods

=head2 Compatibility

Before version 1.200 of the Gtk2 perl module, it was necessary to call
C<Gtk2::GC::release()> on GCs obtained from C<Gtk2::GC::get()>.  As of
version 1.200, this is no longer necessary; a GC will be released when
the last perl reference goes away.  Old-style code continues to work,
but C<Gtk2::GC::release()> is deprecated.

=cut




=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Gtk2>


=cut


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003-2008 by the gtk2-perl team.

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Gtk2> for a full notice.



=cut

