=head1 NAME

Gtk2::RadioAction - wrapper for GtkRadioAction

=cut

=for position SYNOPSIS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $action = Gtk2::RadioAction->new (name => 'one',
                                       tooltip => 'One',
                                       value => 23);

Note that the constructor slightly deviates from the convenience constructor in
the C API.  Instead of passing in a list of values for name, label, tooltip,
stock-id and value, you just use key => value pairs like with
Glib::Object::new.

=cut



=head1 HIERARCHY

  Glib::Object
  +----Gtk2::Action
       +----Gtk2::ToggleAction
            +----Gtk2::RadioAction



=cut

=head1 INTERFACES

  Gtk2::Buildable



=cut


=head1 METHODS

=head2 integer = $action-E<gt>B<get_current_value> 

=head2 $action-E<gt>B<set_current_value> ($value)

=over

=item * $value (integer) 

=back

Since: gtk+ 2.10

=head2 list = $action-E<gt>B<get_group> 

=head2 $action-E<gt>B<set_group> ($member_or_listref)

=over

=item * $member_or_listref (scalar) 

=back



=cut


=head1 PROPERTIES

=over

=item 'current-value' (integer : default 0 : readable / writable / private)

The value property of the currently active member of the group to which this action belongs.

=item 'group' (Gtk2::RadioAction : default undef : writable / private)

The radio action whose group this action belongs to.

=item 'value' (integer : default 0 : readable / writable / private)

The value returned by gtk_radio_action_get_current_value() when this action is the current action of its group.

=back



=cut


=head1 SIGNALS

=over

=item B<changed> (Gtk2::RadioAction, Gtk2::RadioAction)

=back



=cut


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Gtk2>, L<Glib::Object>, L<Gtk2::Action>, L<Gtk2::ToggleAction>


=cut


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003-2008 by the gtk2-perl team.

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Gtk2> for a full notice.



=cut

