=head1 NAME

Gtk2::version -  Library Version Information

=cut

=for object Gtk2::version Library Version Information
=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Gtk2 '1.023';  # require at least version 1.023 of the bindings

  if ($Gtk2::VERSION >= 1.040 and Gtk2->CHECK_VERSION (2, 4, 0)) {
     # the GtkFileChooser, new in gtk+ 2.4.0 and first supported in
     # Gtk2-Perl at 1.040, is available
  } else {
     # GtkFileChooser is not available, fall back to GtkFileSelection
  }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Since the Gtk2 Perl module is a bridge to an external library with its own
versions and API revisions, we have three different versions available for
inspection.  Which one you need to use at which time depends entirely on
the situation.  Gtk2 uses the same scheme as Glib and the underlying gtk+
C library; that is, the standard
C<$Gtk2::VERSION> for the version of the bindings, all-caps
(MAJOR|MINOR|MICRO)_VERSION functions for the bound version, and
lower-case (major|minor|micro)_version functions for the runtime version.
See L<Glib::version> and
L<http://developer.gnome.org/doc/API/2.0/gtk/gtk-Feature-Test-Macros.html>
for more information.

Note also that gtk_check_version() and GTK_CHECK_VERSION() have different
semantics in C, and we have preserved those faithfully.

=cut




=head1 METHODS

=head2 boolean = Gtk2-E<gt>B<CHECK_VERSION> ($required_major, $required_minor, $required_micro)

=over

=item * $required_major (integer) 

=item * $required_minor (integer) 

=item * $required_micro (integer) 

=back

Provides a mechanism for checking the version information that Gtk2 was
compiled against. Essentially equvilent to the macro GTK_CHECK_VERSION. In most
cases this function should be used rather than 
L<check_version ()|/"string = Gtk2-E<gt>B<check_version> ($required_major, $required_minor, $required_micro)">.

=head2 (MAJOR, MINOR, MICRO) = Gtk2->B<GET_VERSION_INFO>

Shorthand to fetch as a list the gtk+ version for which Gtk2 was compiled.
See C<Gtk2::MAJOR_VERSION>, etc.

=head2 integer = Gtk2::MAJOR_VERSION 

The major version of the gtk+ library against which Gtk2 was compiled.
Equivalent to gtk+'s GTK_MAJOR_VERSION.

=head2 integer = Gtk2::MICRO_VERSION 

The micro version of the gtk+ library against which Gtk2 was compiled.
Equivalent to gtk+'s GTK_MICRO_VERSION.

=head2 integer = Gtk2::MINOR_VERSION 

The minor version of the gtk+ library against which Gtk2 was compiled.
Equivalent to gtk+'s GTK_MINOR_VERSION.

=head2 string = Gtk2-E<gt>B<check_version> ($required_major, $required_minor, $required_micro)

=over

=item * $required_major (integer) 

=item * $required_minor (integer) 

=item * $required_micro (integer) 

=back

Returns undef if the version of gtk+ currently in use is compatible with the
given version, otherwise returns a string describing the mismatch.  Note that
this is not the same logic as C<Gtk2::CHECK_VERSION>.  This check is not
terribly reliable, and should not be used to test for availability of widgets
or functions in the Gtk2 module --- use C<Gtk2::CHECK_VERSION> for that.
See L<Glib::version> for a more detailed description of when you'd want to
do a runtime-version test.

=head2 integer = Gtk2::major_version 

The major version of the gtk+ library current in use at runtime.
Equivalent to gtk+'s global variable gtk_major_version.

=head2 integer = Gtk2::micro_version 

The micro version of the gtk+ library current in use at runtime.
Equivalent to gtk+'s global variable gtk_micro_version.

=head2 integer = Gtk2::minor_version 

The minor version of the gtk+ library current in use at runtime.
Equivalent to gtk+'s global variable gtk_minor_version.

=head2 (major, minor, micro) = Gtk2->B<get_version_info>

Shorthand to fetch as a list the gtk+ version against which Gtk2 is linked.
See C<Gtk2::major_version>, etc.



=cut


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Gtk2>, L<Glib::version>


=cut


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003-2008 by the gtk2-perl team.

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Gtk2> for a full notice.



=cut

