=head1 NAME

Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatText - Convert HTML into Text

=head1 INHERITANCE

 Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatText
   is a Mail::Message::Convert
   is a Mail::Reporter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatText;
 my $af = Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatText->new;

 my $plain_body = $af->format($body);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head2 Converters between message objects

=head2 Other converters

Convert HTML/XHTML message body objects into plain text bodies using
HTML::FormatText.  This package requires HTML::TreeBuilder and
HTML::FormatText which are not installed by default together with
Mail::Box.  See also L<Mail::Message::rebuild()|Mail::Message::Construct::Rebuild/"Constructing a message"> with rule
C<text_alternative_for_html>.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

=over 4

=item Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatText-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

 -Option     --Defined in     --Default
  fields       Mail::Message::Convert  <see description>
  leftmargin                    3
  log          Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'
  rightmargin                   72
  trace        Mail::Reporter   'WARNINGS'

=over 2

=item fields => NAMES|ARRAY-OF-NAMES|REGEXS

=item leftmargin => INTEGER

The column of the left margin, passed to the formatter.

=item log => LEVEL

=item rightmargin => INTEGER

The column of the right margin, passed to the formatter.

=item trace => LEVEL

=back

=back

=head2 Converting

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<format>(BODY)

Pass an html/xhtml encoded body, and a plain text body is returned.
Characters are translated into Latin1.

=item $obj-E<gt>B<selectedFields>(HEAD)

See L<Mail::Message::Convert/"Converting">

=back

=head2 Error handling

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<AUTOLOAD>

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<addReport>(OBJECT)

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

=item Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatText-E<gt>B<defaultTrace>([LEVEL]|[LOGLEVEL, TRACELEVEL]|[LEVEL, CALLBACK])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<errors>

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

=item Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatText-E<gt>B<log>([LEVEL [,STRINGS]])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

=item Mail::Message::Convert::HtmlFormatText-E<gt>B<logPriority>(LEVEL)

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<logSettings>

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<notImplemented>

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<report>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<reportAll>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<trace>([LEVEL])

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<warnings>

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Error handling">

=back

=head2 Cleanup

=over 4

=item $obj-E<gt>B<DESTROY>

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=item $obj-E<gt>B<inGlobalDestruction>

See L<Mail::Reporter/"Cleanup">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

=over 4

=item Error: Package $package does not implement $method.

Fatal error: the specific package (or one of its superclasses) does not
implement this method where it should. This message means that some other
related classes do implement this method however the class at hand does
not.  Probably you should investigate this and probably inform the author
of the package.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of Mail-Box distribution version 2.099,
built on July 07, 2011. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/mailbox/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2001-2011 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

