This package was debianized by Mark Johnson <mrj@debian.org> on 
Fri, 21 Sep 2001 06:35:31 -0400

It was downloaded from <http://saxon.sourceforge.net/>

Upstream Author: Michael H. Kay <Michael.Kay@icl.com>

Copyright:

Saxon

The contents of the downloaded file (saxon.zip), with the exception of
the Ælfred parser (see below), are subject to the Mozilla Public
License Version 1.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except
in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License
at http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See
the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
under the License.

The Original Code of SAXON comprises all those components which are
not explicitly attributed to other parties. It does not include the
Ælfred parser, which is redistributed under the licence described
below.

The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Michael Kay of
International Computers Limited. Individual modules identified as
being created by James Clark, David Megginson, or John Cowan include
separate IPR notices. All Rights Reserved.

Since February 2001 I (Michael Kay) have been an employee of Software
AG, and I continue to develop Saxon with the support and sponsorship
of that company. Technically, therefore, the "Initial Developer" no
longer exists (the form of words was deliberately chosen to reflect
the joint involvement of myself and ICL), so I now work as a
"Contributor". Other contributors are acknowledged individually in
comments attached to the relevant code modules.

iclway is an Internet Service Provider operated by ICL; however, the
fact that I continue to use this ISP for hosting Saxon does not imply
that ICL have any interest in the content of the site. Equally, for
reasons of continuity, I have kept the icl.com domain name in package
names and namespace URIs with the tacit consent of ICL, but this
should not be taken to imply any ongoing ICL involvement.

If you produce a product that includes or requires SAXON, please refer
to it as "The SAXON XSLT Processor from Michael Kay", and include the
URL of the master copy, which is at
http://users.iclway.co.uk/mhkay/saxon/.

There is no guarantee of technical support, though I am usually able
to answer enquiries within a few days. Please register with the
mailing list available at http://saxon.xsl.listbot.com and raise any
enquiries there. Also check the list archives: I post lists of known
errors there from time to time.


Ælfred

Included in the Saxon distribution is a modified version of the Ælfred
XML parser from Microstar. I have taken the relevant part of David
Brownell's Ælfred2 distribution, repackaged it, and fixed a few
bugs. All changes are clearly documented in the source code.

This is distributed under the terms of Microstar's terms and
conditions, which are as follows:

         AElfred, Version 1.2
         Microstar's Java-Based XML Parser
         Copyright (c) 1997, 1998 by Microstar Software Ltd.
         Home Page: http://www.microstar.com/XML/

	AElfred is free for both commercial and non-commercial use and
	redistribution, provided that Microstar's copyright and disclaimer are
	retained intact. You are free to modify AElfred for your own use and
	to redistribute AElfred with your modifications, provided that the
	modifications are clearly documented.

        DISCLAIMER

	This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
	WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
	merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Please use it AT
	YOUR OWN RISK.


David Brownell added the following statement: 


/*
 * Copyright (c) 1999-2000 by David Brownell.  All Rights Reserved.
 *
 * This program is open source software; you may use, copy, modify, and
 * redistribute it under the terms of the LICENSE with which it was
 * originally distributed.
 *
 * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 * LICENSE for more details.
 */

The version included with Saxon is David Brownell's code of 26 Feb
2000, modified as follows:

	Changed the package name to com.icl.saxon.aelfred to prevent any
	accidental confusion with the original Microstar code or with
	David Brownell's version.
      
	Fixed several bugs: (1) a bug in namespace handling (where an
	attribute xxx:name precedes the xmlns:xxx declaration) (2)
	poor diagnostics when end of file occurs prematurely
      
	Subsetting the code to include only the XML non-validating
	parser and SAX driver, with appropriate changes to the setFeature()
	and getFeature() methods.

	Some further changes made by David Brownell up to June 2001
	have been incorporated.
