=head1 NAME

User::Identity::Collection::Systems - a collection of system descriptions

=head1 INHERITANCE

 User::Identity::Collection::Systems
   is a User::Identity::Collection
   is a User::Identity::Item

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The L<User::Identity::Collection::Systems|User::Identity::Collection::Systems> object maintains a set
L<User::Identity::System|User::Identity::System> objects, each describing a login for the
user on some system.

=head1 OVERLOADED

overload: B<@{}>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"OVERLOADED">

=back

overload: B<stringification>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"OVERLOADED">

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

User::Identity::Collection::Systems-E<gt>B<new>([NAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option     --Defined in     --Default
 description  User::Identity::Item  undef
 item_type    User::Identity::Collection  User::Identity::System
 name         User::Identity::Item  'systems'
 parent       User::Identity::Item  undef
 roles        User::Identity::Collection  undef

. description => STRING

. item_type => CLASS

. name => STRING

. parent => OBJECT

. roles => ROLE|ARRAY

=back

=head2 Attributes

$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<itemType>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>([NEWNAME])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<roles>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Collections

$obj-E<gt>B<add>(COLLECTION, ROLE)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addCollection>(OBJECT | ([TYPE], OPTIONS))

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<collection>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parent>([PARENT])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<removeCollection>(OBJECT|NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

User::Identity::Collection::Systems-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<user>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

=head2 Maintaining roles

$obj-E<gt>B<addRole>(ROLE| ( [NAME],OPTIONS ) | ARRAY-OF-OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<removeRole>(ROLE|NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<renameRole>(ROLE|OLDNAME, NEWNAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<sorted>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Maintaining roles">

=back

=head2 Searching

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(NAME|CODE|undef)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Collection/"Searching">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: $object is not a collection.

=over 4

The first argument is an object, but not of a class which extends
L<User::Identity::Collection|User::Identity::Collection>.

=back

Error: Cannot create a $type to add this to my collection.

=over 4

Some options are specified to create a $type object, which is native to
this collection.  However, for some reason this failed.

=back

Error: Cannot load collection module for $type ($class).

=over 4

Either the specified $type does not exist, or that module named $class returns
compilation errors.  If the type as specified in the warning is not
the name of a package, you specified a nickname which was not defined.
Maybe you forgot the 'require' the package which defines the nickname.

=back

Error: Cannot rename $name into $newname: already exists

=over 4

=back

Error: Cannot rename $name into $newname: doesn't exist

=over 4

=back

Error: Creation of a collection via $class failed.

=over 4

The $class did compile, but it was not possible to create an object
of that class using the options you specified.

=back

Error: Don't know what type of collection you want to add.

=over 4

If you add a collection, it must either by a collection object or a
list of options which can be used to create a collection object.  In
the latter case, the type of collection must be specified.

=back

Warning: No collection $name

=over 4

The collection with $name does not exist and can not be created.

=back

Error: Wrong type of role for $collection: requires a $expect but got a $type

=over 4

Each $collection groups sets of roles of one specific type ($expect).  You
cannot add objects of a different $type.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of User-Identity distribution version 0.93,
built on December 24, 2009. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/userid/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2003,2004,2007-2009 by Mark Overmeer <perl@overmeer.net>. For other contributors see Changes.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

