This package was debianised by Alastair McKinstry, <mckinstry@debian.org>
on 12 August 2009.

It was downloaded from: http://opendap.org/download/libdap++.html


Copyright (c) 2002,2003 OPeNDAP, Inc.

Some files Copyright (C) 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

libdap is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public Liensse, version 2.1.
On Debian systems, a copy of this license is available at
/usr/share/common-licenses/LGPL-2.1

COPYRIGHT_URI
=============
  $Id: COPYRIGHT_URI 11906 2005-08-08 19:51:43Z root $

  (c) Copyright 1994-2000 by
  The University of Rhode Island and The Massachusetts Institute of Technology

  Portions of this software were developed by the Graduate School of
  Oceanography (GSO) at the University of Rhode Island (URI) in collaboration
  with The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).

  Access and use of this software shall impose the following obligations and
  understandings on the user. The user is granted the right, without any fee
  or cost, to use, copy, modify, alter, enhance and distribute this software,
  and any derivative works thereof, and its supporting documentation for any
  purpose whatsoever, provided that this entire notice appears in all copies
  of the software, derivative works and supporting documentation. The names
  URI, MIT and/or GSO, may not be used in any advertising or publicity to
  endorse or promote any products or commercial entity unless specific
  written permission is obtained from URI/MIT. The user also understands that
  URI/MIT is not obligated to provide the user with any support, consulting,
  training or assistance of any kind with regard to the use, operation and
  performance of this software nor to provide the user with any updates,
  revisions, new versions or "bug fixes".

  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY URI/MIT "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO
  EVENT SHALL URI/MIT BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
  DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
  PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTUOUS
  ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE ACCESS, USE OR PERFORMANCE
  OF THIS SOFTWARE.

COPYRIGHT_W3C
=============

                     W3C# SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE

Copyright # 1994-2002 World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique,
Keio University). All Rights Reserved. http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/

This W3C work (including software, documents, or other related items) is
being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By
obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you
have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms and
conditions:

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation, with or without modification, for any purpose and without fee
or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL
copies of the software and documentation or portions thereof, including
modifications, that you make:

   1. The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the
      redistributed or derivative work.

   2. Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms
      and conditions. If none exist, a short notice of the following form
      (hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) should be used within the
      body of any redistributed or derivative code: "Copyright #
      [$date-of-software] World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute
      of Technology, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en
      Automatique, Keio University). All Rights Reserved.
      http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/"

   3. Notice of any changes or modifications to the W3C files, including the
      date changes were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location
      from which the code is derived.)

THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE
ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.

COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR
DOCUMENTATION.

The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising
or publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior
permission. Title to copyright in this software and any associated
documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders.

