=head1 NAME

User::Identity::Location - physical location of a person

=head1 INHERITANCE

 User::Identity::Location
   is a User::Identity::Item

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use User::Identity;
 use User::Identity::Location;
 my $me   = User::Identity->new(...);
 my $addr = User::Identity::Location->new(...);
 $me->add(location => $addr);

 # Simpler

 use User::Identity;
 my $me   = User::Identity->new(...);
 my $addr = $me->add(location => ...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<User::Identity::Location> object contains the description of a physical
location of a person: home, work, travel.  The locations are collected
by a L<User::Identity::Collection::Locations|User::Identity::Collection::Locations> object.

Nearly all methods can return C<undef>.  Some methods produce language or
country specific output.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

User::Identity::Location-E<gt>B<new>([NAME], OPTIONS)

=over 4

Create a new location.  You can specify a name as first argument, or
in the OPTION list.  Without a specific name, the organization is used as name.

 Option      --Defined in     --Default
 country                        undef
 country_code                   undef
 description   User::Identity::Item  undef
 fax                            undef
 name          User::Identity::Item  <required>
 organization                   undef
 parent        User::Identity::Item  undef
 pc                             undef
 phone                          undef
 pobox                          undef
 pobox_pc                       undef
 postal_code                    <value of option pc>
 state                          undef
 street                         undef

. country => STRING

. country_code => STRING

. description => STRING

. fax => STRING|ARRAY

. name => STRING

. organization => STRING

. parent => OBJECT

. pc => STRING

=over 4

Short name for C<postal_code>.

=back

. phone => STRING|ARRAY

. pobox => STRING

. pobox_pc => STRING

. postal_code => STRING

. state => STRING

. street => STRING

=back

=head2 Attributes

$obj-E<gt>B<city>

=over 4

The city where the address is located.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<country>

=over 4

The country where the address is located.  If the name of the country is
not known but a country code is defined, the name will be looked-up
using Geography::Countries (if installed).

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<countryCode>

=over 4

Each country has an ISO standard abbreviation.  Specify the country or the
country code, and the other will be filled in automatically.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fax>

=over 4

One or more fax numbers, like L<phone()|User::Identity::Location/"Attributes">.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<fullAddress>

=over 4

Create an address to put on a postal mailing, in the format as normal in
the country where it must go to.  To be able to achieve that, the country
code must be known.  If the city is not specified or no street or pobox is
given, undef will be returned: an incomplete address.

example: 

 print $uil->fullAddress;
 print $user->find(location => 'home')->fullAddress;

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<name>([NEWNAME])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<organization>

=over 4

The organization (for instance company) which is related to this location.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<phone>

=over 4

One or more phone numbers.  Please use the internation notation, which
starts with C<'+'>, for instance C<+31-26-12131>.  In scalar context,
only the first number is produced.  In list context, all numbers are
presented.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<pobox>

=over 4

Post Office mail box specification.  Use C<"P.O.Box 314">, not simple C<314>.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<poboxPostalCode>

=over 4

The postal code related to the Post-Office mail box.  Defined by new() option
C<pobox_pc>.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<postalCode>

=over 4

The postal code is very country dependent.  Also, the location of the
code within the formatted string is country dependent.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<state>

=over 4

The state, which is important for some contries but certainly not for
the smaller ones.  Only set this value when you state has to appear on
printed addresses.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<street>

=over 4

Returns the address of this location.  Since Perl 5.7.3, you can use
unicode in strings, so why not format the address nicely?

=back

=head2 Collections

$obj-E<gt>B<add>(COLLECTION, ROLE)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<addCollection>(OBJECT | ([TYPE], OPTIONS))

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<collection>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<find>(COLLECTION, ROLE)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parent>([PARENT])

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<removeCollection>(OBJECT|NAME)

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

User::Identity::Location-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<user>

=over 4

See L<User::Identity::Item/"Collections">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: $object is not a collection.

=over 4

The first argument is an object, but not of a class which extends
L<User::Identity::Collection|User::Identity::Collection>.

=back

Error: Cannot load collection module for $type ($class).

=over 4

Either the specified $type does not exist, or that module named $class returns
compilation errors.  If the type as specified in the warning is not
the name of a package, you specified a nickname which was not defined.
Maybe you forgot the 'require' the package which defines the nickname.

=back

Error: Creation of a collection via $class failed.

=over 4

The $class did compile, but it was not possible to create an object
of that class using the options you specified.

=back

Error: Don't know what type of collection you want to add.

=over 4

If you add a collection, it must either by a collection object or a
list of options which can be used to create a collection object.  In
the latter case, the type of collection must be specified.

=back

Warning: No collection $name

=over 4

The collection with $name does not exist and can not be created.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of User-Identity distribution version 0.93,
built on December 24, 2009. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/userid/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2003,2004,2007-2009 by Mark Overmeer <perl@overmeer.net>. For other contributors see Changes.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

