This directory tree holds version 1.6.3 of the m17n database.
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011
  National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST)
  Registration Number H15PRO112
See the end for copying conditions.

INSTALL

(0) Prerequisite

The make procedure requires "charmap" files.  The configure script
cheks the directory /usr/share/i18n/charmaps which usually should be
found on GNU/Linux system.

If you don't have that directory, you must get the files from the
source of glibc, and inform the configure script of the directory by
the argument "--with-charmaps=DIR".

If you have "wget", the script "./get-glibc.sh" is a convenient tool
to download the source of glibc (2.3) and extract files in a directory
where the configure script finds automatically, thus no need of
"--with-charmaps=DIR" argument.

Please note that /usr/share/i18n/charmaps may contain incomplete
GB18030.gz (e.g. /xfe/xa0.. /xfe/xfe are not mapped).  In that case,
you need the newer glibc source (glibc-2.3) by using "./get-glibc.sh".

(1) Installation from CVS working directory.

Just after you checked out or updated this package, run the script
"./bootstrap.sh", then follows (2).

(2) Installation from a tar ball.

% ./configure
% make
% make install

(3) Copyright of files under "po" directory.

Some of *.po files are contributed by people no belonging to AIST.
Such files have different copyright notices.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright information

Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011
  National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST)
  Registration Number H15PRO112

This file is part of the m17n database; a sub-part of the m17n
library.

The m17n library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.

The m17n library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with the m17n library; if not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.
