opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/chessboard.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/contours.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/convexhull.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/delaunay.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/demhist.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/dft.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/distrans.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/drawing.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/edge.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/facedetect.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/ffilldemo.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/fitellipse.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/houghlines.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/inpaint.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/kalman.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/kmeans.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/laplace.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/lkdemo.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/logpolar.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/minarea.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/minidemo.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/morphology.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/motempl.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/pyramid_segmentation.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/squares.py
opencv-doc: python-script-but-no-python-dep ./usr/share/opencv/samples/python/watershed.py
opencv-doc: embedded-javascript-library usr/share/doc/opencv-doc/html/html/jquery.js
