#csh is not as bad as policy thinks
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/compamb
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/dayfact
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/debugcal
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/falsecolor
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/fieldcomb
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/genambpos
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/glare
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/glaze
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/normpat
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/objline
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/objpict
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/objview
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/optics2rad
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/pbilat
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/pdelta
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/pdfblur
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/pgblur
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/phisto
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/pmblur
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/pmdblur
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/ra_pfm
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/raddepend
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/ran2tiff
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/rlux
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/vinfo
radiance: csh-considered-harmful ./usr/bin/xyzimage
